DOC: Modify index, overview and gettingstarted pages (#226)
equinor/fmu-settings: docs/src/getting_started.md

# Getting started

### Start by initializing FMU Settings, meaning creating the `.fmu` folder:

#### Initialization is done in the terminal in your TGX session:
To initialize FMU Settings you must be in you FMU projects `root` folder, meaning in a folder that contains a subfolder called `ert`.
Example of a how a standard project path could look like: 
`project/ff/resmod/25.0.0/ert/model`.

> In this example the `25.0.0` folder is the root folder, as it contains a subfolder called `ert`. This is how FMU Settings identifies your project as a FMU project.

Reviewer: I think it's better to have some text after the Getting started header, because it looks like this now

<img width="924" height="967" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/07b04ca9-1d65-415c-9bd6-8a5b785fe411" />

Suggestion:
```md
# Getting started

To get started, initialize FMU Settings for your project. This creates the hidden `.fmu` folder used to store project settings.

## Initialize FMU Settings

Initialization is done in the terminal in your TGX session.

To initialize FMU Settings you must be in you FMU projects `root` folder, meaning in a folder that contains a subfolder called `ert`.

Example of a how a standard project path could look like:

`project/ff/resmod/25.0.0/ert/model`

In this example the `25.0.0` folder is the root folder, as it contains a subfolder called `ert`. This is how FMU Settings identifies your project as a FMU project.
```

1. Go to the project root:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   ```
2. From here, run the command:
   ```bash
   fmu init
   ```

> The `fmu init` command will create a `.fmu` folder at this location in the project path. (Remember, it will be a hidden folder so it will not be listed by the command ll or ls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `fmu init` command will create a `.fmu` folder at this location in the project path. (Remember, it will be a hidden folder so it will not be listed by the command `ll` or `ls`).
```

> **You have now initialized FMU Settings and created your `.fmu` folder. **

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You have now initialized FMU Settings and created your `.fmu` folder.**
```

`fmu init` creates a `.fmu/` folder in the project path.

When a project is initialized, FMU Settings looks for existing global FMU configuration in these locations:
**You have now initialized FMU Settings and created your `.fmu` folder. **

The initialization triggers FMU Settings to look for existing global config files in these locations:
- `fmuconfig/output/global_variables.yml`
- files matching `global*.yml` under `fmuconfig/input/`

If valid configuration is found, FMU Settings imports the available data into the project config. This can include:

If any valid configuration is found here, FMU Settings will import the available data, so that you will not have to configure everything again. This can include data in the global config sections:
- `masterdata`
- `model`
- `access`

Stratigraphy is not imported by `fmu init`. You can continue that setup later in the GUI.
**NB: Stratigraphy is not imported. Stratigraphy data has to be configured directly in the GUI.**

3. Open FMU Settings:

   ```bash
   fmu settings
   ```

> ### You can also initialize from the GUI

Reviewer: I know that we guide the user to initialize from CLI, but the user still can initialize from the GUI if they just poke around the app. So should we have documentation somewhere explaining it, or just hope the user won't do it through the GUI?

Author: Very much agree! But I think it should not be mentioned in the getting_started section, just so we don't confuse the users when they start using this for the first time. But it could for instance be there in the gui_user_guide :)

> ### How to open FMU Settings from the project folder when you already have `.fmu` in place:

Reviewer: suggest to use level 2 heading (##) here instead of level 3 heading

3. Enter the project path in the text field.
4. If the project does not yet have a `.fmu/` folder, FMU Settings asks whether you want to initialize it.
5. The same initialization rules apply here as when running `fmu init` in the terminal:
   - the project folder must contain a subfolder `ert`
   - valid global config is searched for in `fmuconfig/output/global_variables.yml`
   - valid global config is also searched for in files matching `global*.yml` under `fmuconfig/input/`
   - available `masterdata`, `model`, and `access` are imported automatically

6. Confirm, and the application will create `.fmu/` and open the project.

## If the project already has `.fmu/`

If the project is already initialized, you can open it in either of these ways.

### Open it directly from the project folder

1. Go to the project path:

### How to open FMU Settings from the project folder when you already have `.fmu` in place:
1. Go to the project root:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/project
   ```

2. Run:

   ```bash
   fmu settings
   ```

If you start FMU Settings from the project path, it will automatically open that project.

> ### Open it from anywhere

Reviewer: This section as well, because technically the user can run `fmu settings` from anywhere and they can open the project from the app after that, so I still think that should be documented somewhere, even though we may prefer them to go to the project path first then run `fmu settings`

Author: I agree it must be documented somewhere but I think it should not be in the getting_started section as that should be as simple and straight forward as possible, to avoid confusion. Maybe we could add it to the terminal commands page?

Reviewer: could be, or maybe in the gui user guide? i'm not sure how a typical FMU user work, but just running fmu settings from anywhere and click on recent projects is easier IMO than having to cd to a long project path and run fmu settings.

maybe we can just improve this section
https://github.com/equinor/fmu-settings/blob/c27b6825070ab75c191f1feee3aa0a8ccf08a77b/docs/src/gui_user_guide.md?plain=1#L38-L49

# Getting started

To get started, initialize FMU Settings for your project. This creates the hidden `.fmu` folder used to store project settings.

## Initialize FMU Settings

Initialization is done in the terminal in your TGX session.

> To initialize FMU Settings you must be in you FMU projects `root` folder, meaning in a folder that contains a subfolder called `ert`.

Reviewer 2: Typo `you` -> `you're`

Reviewer: *your

Example of a how a standard project path could look like:

> `project/ff/resmod/25.0.0/ert/model`

Reviewer 2: @tnatt Probably fine, just asking to be sure: Is this a sensitive path we should not share?

Reviewer 3: That is a fair point, I think it is fine but not sure. Lets check it up, we have this path in the gui as well.

> In this example the `25.0.0` folder is the root folder, as it contains a subfolder called `ert`. This is how FMU Settings identifies your project as a FMU project.

Reviewer 3: The standard is to have the model directory `ff` after the `resmod` directory, before resmod there is the asset directory. 
And when we say a standard project path maybe we should only show the actual project path, as now users may interpret it to be inside ert model folder :) something like

```suggestion
`/project/asset/resmod/ff/25.0.0`

In this example the `25.0.0` folder is the FMU project root, and initialization should be run from within this revision directory. FMU Settings will verify that the project directory contains a subfolder named `ert` to identify your project as an FMU project.
```

1. Go to the project root:
   ```bash

>    cd /path/to/project

Reviewer 3: It might be clearer for the user if we keep the example here in sync with the example path above.
```suggestion
   cd `/project/asset/resmod/ff/25.0.0`
```

   ```
2. From here, run the command:
   ```bash
   fmu init
   ```
The `fmu init` command will create a `.fmu` folder at this location in the project path. (Remember, it will be a hidden folder so it will not be listed by the command `ll` or `ls`).

**You have now initialized FMU Settings and created your `.fmu` folder.**

> The initialization triggers FMU Settings to look for existing global config files in these locations:

Reviewer 3: I think it could be clearer that this import of existing data is a special case for handling fields that were early onboarders to sumo and that it is not part the standard initialization of projects. Just to avoid users thinking that may need to have a global config with data before initialization.
Maybe we could make it into a note or something.

- `fmuconfig/output/global_variables.yml`
- files matching `global*.yml` under `fmuconfig/input/`

If any valid configuration is found here, FMU Settings will import the available data, so that you will not have to configure everything again. This can include data in the global config sections:
- `masterdata`
- `model`
- `access`

> **NB: Stratigraphy is not imported. Stratigraphy data has to be configured directly in the GUI.**

Reviewer 3: We should mention somewhere that says that when the configuration is complete in the GUI, these sections could and should be deleted from the global config.

3. Open FMU Settings:
   ```bash
   fmu settings
   ```

> ## How to open FMU Settings from the project folder when you already have `.fmu` in place:

Reviewer 3: I an not sure how much we should refer to `.fmu`, I want users to know as little as possible about that folder to prevent them digging around in there :D 
Maybe change to  
```suggestion
## How to open FMU Settings when your project is already initialized:
```

Reviewer 3: Also we should make it clear that a project can be opened from any directory located within the project, as FMU Settings will automatically detect the nearest project. Which is quite useful.

> 1. Go to the project root:

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should include an example of how the project path will look like here as well (in case the user jumps straight to this section)?

# Getting started

To get started you need to initialize FMU Settings for your project.

## Initialize FMU Settings

### Initialization from the terminal - *Recommended!*

> To initialize FMU Settings you must be in your FMU projects root folder, meaning in a folder that contains a subfolder called `ert`.

Reviewer 3: I think mention the revision folder also here might bring clarity what the root folder is 🙂 
Also should we use the term **directory** consistently throughout instead of **folder** since we are targeting linux users?

```suggestion
To initialize FMU Settings you must be in your FMU project root, meaning within a revision directory of your model. This directory should contain a subdirectory called `ert`.

Example of a how a standard project path could look like:
`project/asset/resmod/ff/25.0.0`

In this example the `25.0.0` folder is the revision folder and the FMU project root, and initialization should be run from within this revision folder. FMU Settings will verify that the project folder contains a subfolder named `ert` to identify your project as a FMU project.

1.	Go to the project root:
```bash
cd  project/asset/resmod/ff/25.0.0
```

2.	From here, run the command:
```bash
fmu init
```

You have now initialized FMU Settings.

   >##### Important:
   >**For early onboarders to SUMO**, that already have masterdata in the global config before initialization of FMU Settings: 
   >

>    >The initialization triggers FMU Settings to look for existing global config files in these locations: `fmuconfig/output/global_variables.yml` and files matching `global*.yml` under `fmuconfig/input/`. If any valid configuration is found here, FMU Settings will import the available data, so that you will not have to configure everything again. This can include data in the global config sections `masterdata`, `model` and `access`.

Reviewer 3: I suggest only referencing the standard location here to simplify for the users, and making it a bit more clear what sections are imported.

```suggestion
The initialization triggers FMU Settings to look for an existing global config file at the standard location `fmuconfig/output/global_variables.yml`. If a valid configuration is found here, FMU Settings will import the sections `masterdata`, `model` and `access`, so that you will not have to configure everything again. 
```
